Thus far we always assumed that everything works but in reality, of course you'll also have HttpRequests
that fail and handling such errors is always important.
Now HttpRequests can fail for many reasons, because the internet connection is bad, because the server
is down, because you send invalid data,
there are many ways HttpRequests can fail. Now to be informed about a failing request,
we have to add another listener to our XMLHttpRequest object and that's the onError listener
or handler. This will trigger whenever we have an error when we send a HttpRequest.
Now let's see what we get here and for that, let's console log xhr.response in the error
case and let's also console log something else and that's the xhr.status,
this gives us the status code we got back. Now to simulate an error,
we can for example go to our get request and send this to an invalid URL by basically cutting off
the ts of the path and therefore we have a path which is not supported by the server.
If we do so and we now reload, let's open the console here and now click fetch posts and you see, here
I'm getting an error,
this is getting logged from line 25 of my script, so from the send request in the end, not from line 21
or something like that
and here we also got another error from line 37,
that's just indicating that we failed to loop through all the posts.
If we have a look at the network tab, we also see there
we got a 404 response back, what we don't see is our error handler doing its job here though and that's
indeed important to understand. The error handler here does not kick in for HttpRequests that are technically
successful where we just have a server side error, so where we just get back a non-200 status code.
This error function instead will kick in if you for example have a network error,
so if the request fails to be sent or does time out or anything like that.
If you have a request that leaves your page successfully and you get back a response, even if that response
indicates that something is wrong on the server side, for example that the path wasn't found there, then
you're not making it into onError but instead to onLoad because technically, you have a correct request
and response.
So what you should do is you should check if xhr.status, if that is let's say greater or equal than
200 and at the same time smaller than 300 which indicates a success case,
in this case I want to resolve, else in the other cases, I know something went wrong and then we can reject
this
and for example reject with a new error object here where we say something went wrong, like that.
Here in the onError handler, I of course also want to do that, I want to reject with a new error, failed
to send request but this will simply happen at a different time, this will happen if we technically fail
to send a request.
Now we have proper handling for server side errors as well, by checking the status code here in onLoad
and therefore now if we try this again and we click fetch posts,
now you see something went wrong which is my own custom error message
and now we can of course use the normal ways of handling this on promises, with catch blocks or when
using async await, with the help of try catch to make sure we don't continue if we have a problematic
promise here.
So here, we could then wrap this all into try and catch and error here
and then maybe show the error message to the user
and now with that, we would properly handle that error, if I click fetch posts,
now we just get that error message here instead of that broken script.
The key takeaway here really is that you don't make it into onError because the server reports back
a non-success status code but that you instead stay in onLoad if that happens and you only make it
into onError
if the request fails for different reasons,
if you have no Internet connection for example, then this would trigger,
otherwise you reach onLoad and therefore in onLoad,
you should also handle non-success status codes as we're doing it here.